# Upgrading

## Version 8.3.5

There are a number of changes in this release, most of which are minor.

In [version 8.1](#version-81), changes were made to support publishing events via the bus when consuming messages in a mediator-based consumer. In this version, both `ISendEndpointProvider` and `IPublishEndpoint` will now properly resolve to the _current_ bus instance. Previously, these interfaces would only resolve to the default `IBus` instance regardless of the consumer's bus instance.

### MongoDB

MassTransit now uses the MongoDB 3.1 NuGet package, which has some breaking changes. Be sure to check [MongoDB's](https://www.mongodb.com/docs/drivers/csharp/current/upgrade/v3/) upgrade guide.

### SQL Transport

The SQL transport has a number of newly implemented features:

- Message expiration is now supported. Expired messages can either be deleted (the default behavior) or moved to the dead-letter queue. The `DeadLetterExpiredMessages` receive endpoint property configures this behavior.
- When a message's DeliveryCount exceeds the MaxDeliveryCount, it will now be moved to the dead-letter queue.
- To ensure backwards compatibility across applications, new versions of the create queue, send message, and publish messages stored procedures/functions have been created. The original versions call the new versions.

### RabbitMQ

To be compatible with the newly announced [deprecations](https://www.rabbitmq.com/blog/2021/08/21/4.0-deprecation-announcements), MassTransit will now create temporary queues using Queue TTL instead of Auto Delete. It's also possible to use quorum queues for job service instance queues, using:

```csharp
x.SetJobConsumerOptions()
    .Endpoint(e =>
    {
        e.AddConfigureEndpointCallback(cfg =>
        {
            if (cfg is IRabbitMqReceiveEndpointConfigurator rmq)
                rmq.SetQuorumQueue();
        });
    });
```

## Version 8.3.2

MassTransit v8.3.2 drops the `net6.0` target framework and adds the `net9.0` target framework.

The RabbitMQ client v7 is now used, which no longer has support for batch publishing. This was purely a facade in the original client, and was therefore not implemented in the new client. You can learn more about the changes in the [RabbitMQ Release](https://github.com/rabbitmq/rabbitmq-dotnet-client/releases/tag/v7.0.0).

Overall benchmarks of the new client with MassTransit yielded a 20-25% increase in message throughput.

## Version 8.3

With MassTransit 8.3 there are a few core underlying changes that may require attention when upgrading from an earlier version.

### Job Consumers 

Support for recurring and scheduled job consumers is now available. To support these new features, the job saga state machines have new properties that must be persisted. The entity framework maps have been updated, to be sure to update any migrations in your applications and plan for the migrations to be run when or before the new versions are deployed.

> The [Job Consumer documentation](/documentation/patterns/job-consumers) has also been updated to include all new and existing features.

The `NotifyCompleted`, `NotifyFaulted`, `NotifyCanceled`, and `NotifyStarted` methods have been removed from the `JobContext<T>` interface. These were _never_ meant to be called by a job consumer. The underlying job service components report the job state, there is no need for consumers to do it.

Job consumer behavior determines the resulting state:

- If the `Run` method completes without throwing an exception, the job is Completed.
- If the `Run` method throws an exception, the job is Faulted.
- If the `Run` method throws an `OperationCanceledException` where the token is `context.CancellationToken`, the job is Canceled.

When checking for cancellation, or calling methods that can be canceled, the `context.CancellationToken` should be used. If checking for cancellation explicitly, using `context.CancellationToken.IsCancellationRequested`, the exception should be throwing using `context.CancellationToken.ThrowIfCancellationRequested()`.



### Transactional Outbox

The transactional outbox entity `OutboxMessage` now has foreign key relationships to `InboxState` and `OutboxState`. To meet this requirement, all three entity types must always be configured/included (previously you could leave one or the other off and the outbox would still function). The migrations should also be updated to include the new constraints.

## Version 8.1

MassTransit version 8.1 is focused on improving cross-component integration between various components like the (mediator <-> bus, bus1 <-> bus2, etc). In previous versions of MassTransit, the `ConsumeContext` was used to send messages. This approach worked well for a long time, but as more components like the Mediator, MultiBus, and Riders became available, issues arose with resolving the correct `ConsumeContext`.

To address this issue, MassTransit v8.1 introduces a new capability to keep track of the owning component of the `ConsumeContext`. When the `ConsumeContext` is owned by another component, the library only copies necessary data such as headers, payloads, and source address. This change opens up the possibility of consuming message by the Mediator and sending it directly to the bus by resolving `IPublishEndpoint` or `ISendEndpointProvider`.

As this is a minor release, we have made every effort to ensure minimal impact on existing customer integrations. However, to use this capability, small changes are required. Previously, `IServiceProvider` was used as a parameter to most configuration methods, with this change `IRegistrationContext` should be used instead.

### Sagas
In MassTransit v8.1, the registration of `ISagaRepository<TSaga>` in the container has been updated. Previously, this interface was responsible for both retrieving and querying sagas from the repository. With this release, we have decided to separate these responsibilities, resulting in the registering of two additional interfaces in container:

- `ILoadSagaRepository<TSaga>` - should be used to load sagas by id.
- `IQuerySagaRepository<TSaga>` - should be used to query saga ids by expression.

Both of these interfaces are registered in the container as singletons.
::alert{type="warning"}
The registration `ISagaRepository<TSaga>` will be removed from the container, so it is recommended to start using these new interfaces instead.
::

### Job Service State Machines

In Mass Transit v8.1 the job type saga now includes a name property. This may require a database migration depending on the persistence provider chosen.

## Version 8

MassTransit v8 is the first major release since the availability of .NET 6. MassTransit v8 works a significant portion of the underlying components into a more manageable solution structure. Focused on the developer experience, while maintaining compatibility with previous versions, this release brings together the entire MassTransit stack.

Automatonymous, Green Pipes, and NewId have been completely integrated into a single MassTransit solution. This means that every aspect of MassTransit is now within a single namespace, which makes it easy to find the right interface, extension, and whatever else is needed. A lot of common questions result in a missing `using` statement, and now that should no longer be the case. The entire developer surface area, for the most part, exists within the `MassTransit` namespace.

When upgrading from previous versions of MassTransit, there are a few initial steps to get up and running. While this list doesn't cover everything, these are the main items experienced so far when upgrading from a previous version.

- Remove any references to packages that were not updated with v8. This includes:
  - `GreenPipes`
  - `NewId`  (still available separately, do not use in a project referencing MassTransit)
  - `Automatonymous`
  - `Automatonymous.Visualizer` -> `MassTransit.StateMachineVisualizer`
  - `MassTransit.AspNetCore`
  - `MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection`
  - Any of the third-party container assemblies.
- Remove any `using` statements that for namespaces that no longer exist

Some configuration interfaces have been removed/changed names:

| Original | New |
|--|--|
|`IServiceCollectionBusConfigurator`|`IBusRegistrationConfigurator`|
|`IServiceCollectionRiderConfigurator`|`IRiderRegistrationConfigurator`|
|`IServiceCollectionMediatorConfigurator`|`IMediatorRegistrationConfigurator`|

### Serialization

The default JSON serializer is now `System.Text.Json`. Refer to [Microsoft's Migration Guide](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/standard/serialization/system-text-json-migrate-from-newtonsoft-how-to?pivots=dotnet-6-0) if you encounter any serialization issues after upgrading.

To continue using Newtonsoft for serialization, add the `MassTransit.Newtonsoft` package and specify one of the configuration methods when configuring the bus:
- `UseNewtonsoftJsonSerializer`
- `UseNewtonsoftRawJsonSerializer`
- `UseXmlSerializer`
- `UseBsonSerializer`

### AddMassTransitHostedService (deprecated)

Previous versions of MassTransit required the use of the `MassTransit.AspNetCore` package to support registration of MassTransit's hosted service. This package is no longer required, and MassTransit will automatically add an `IHostedService` for MassTransit.

The host can be configured using `IOptions` configuration support, such as shown below:

```csharp
services.Configure<MassTransitHostOptions>(options =>
{
    options.WaitUntilStarted = true;
    options.StartTimeout = TimeSpan.FromSeconds(30);
    options.StopTimeout = TimeSpan.FromMinutes(1);
});
```

::callout{type="info"}
#summary
The .NET Generic Host has its own internal timers for shutdown, etc. that may also need to be adjusted.
#content

Configure the Generic Host options as shown.
```csharp
services.Configure<HostOptions>(
        opts => opts.ShutdownTimeout = TimeSpan.FromMinutes(1));
```
::

> In addition to the hosted service, .NET health checks are added as well, and may be included on health check endpoints.

### Observers

Observers registered in the container will be connected to the bus automatically, including:

| Observer Type | Registration |
|--|--|
| `IBusObserver` | `AddBusObserver<T>` |
| `IReceiveObserver` | `AddReceiveObserver<T>` |
| `IConsumeObserver` | `AddConsumeObserver<T>` |
| `IReceiveEndpointObserver` | `AddReceiveEndpointObserver<T>` |

### State Machine Changes

The state machine interfaces, `BehaviorContext<T>` and `BehaviorContext<T, TData>` are now derived from `SagaConsumeContext<T>` and `SagaConsumeContext<T, TMessage>`. This significantly improves the usability of MassTransit features in state machine. No more calling `GetPayload<ConsumeContext>` or other methods to get access to the `ConsumeContext`! Seriously, this is awesome.

As part of this change, the `.Data` and `.Instance` properties of `BehaviorContext` are superfluous, and have subsequently been marked as obsolete. They still work, and return `.Message` or `.Saga` respectively, but eventually the might be removed (not in the near future though).

The previous `Automatonymous.Activity<T>` and `Automatonymous.Activity<T, TData>` interfaces have been renamed, and are now `IStateMachineActivity<TSaga>` and `IStateMachineActivity<TSaga, TMessage>` (both are now in the top-level `MassTransit` namespace).

Specifying headers when using the `.Init<T>()` message initializer with `SendAsync`, `PublishAsync`, and other related methods now works as expected!

The saga state machine test harness type `IStateMachineSagaTestHarness<TInstance, TStateMachine>` has been replaced with the properly named type `ISagaStateMachineTestHarness<TStateMachine, TInstance>`, which also has consistent generic argument ordering.

A new `.Retry()` activity has been added, allowing individual activities within a state machine to be retried. This retry is performed inline, with the same saga instance, and uses the same retry policies as message-based retry.

### Nullable Types

`MassTransit.Abstractions` has enabled nullable type information, so it may signal to the compiler that a null can be returned when appropriate for certain methods.

### Unit Testing

A new version of the test harness is now available, specifically designed for use with containers. The basics are the same, only the configuration has changed. An example test, shown below, using the in-memory transport by default. Consumer, saga, and activity test harnesses are added automatically and can be retrieved from the harness.

```csharp
[Test]
public async Task The_consumer_should_respond_to_the_request()
{
    await using var provider = new ServiceCollection()
        .AddMassTransitTestHarness(x =>
        {
            x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();
        })
        .BuildServiceProvider(true);

    var harness = provider.GetTestHarness();

    await harness.Start();

    var client = harness.GetRequestClient<SubmitOrder>();

    await client.GetResponse<OrderSubmitted>(new
    {
        OrderId = InVar.Id,
        OrderNumber = "123"
    });

    Assert.IsTrue(await harness.Sent.Any<OrderSubmitted>());

    Assert.IsTrue(await harness.Consumed.Any<SubmitOrder>());

    var consumerHarness = harness.GetConsumerHarness<SubmitOrderConsumer>();

    Assert.That(await consumerHarness.Consumed.Any<SubmitOrder>());
}
```

::alert{type="success"}
When the _provider_ (which is an `IServiceProvider`) is disposed, it will dispose of the test harness, which will stop the bus.
::

Additionally, the test harness can now be used with any transport. For example, to use RabbitMQ:

```csharp
[Test]
public async Task Should_use_broker()
{
    await using var provider = new ServiceCollection()
        .AddMassTransitTestHarness(x =>
        {
            x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();

            x.UsingRabbitMq((context, cfg) =>
            {
                cfg.Host("some-broker-address", h =>
                {
                    h.Username("joe");
                    h.Password("cool");
                });

                cfg.ConfigureEndpoints(context);
            });
        })
        .BuildServiceProvider(true);
}
```

### Third-Party Container Support

MassTransit is now using _Microsoft.Extensions.DependencyInjection.Abstractions_ as an integral configuration component. This means that all configuration (such as `AddMassTransit`, `AddMediator`) is built against `IServiceCollection`. Support for other containers is provided using each specific container's extensions to work with `IServiceCollection` and `IServiceProvider`.

For example, using Autofac, the configuration might look something like what is shown below.

```csharp
var collection = new ServiceCollection();

collection.AddMassTransit(x =>
{
    x.AddConsumer<SubmitOrderConsumer>();

    x.UsingRabbitMq((context, cfg) => 
    {
        cfg.ConfigureEndpoints(context);
    });
});
var factory = new AutofacServiceProviderFactory();
var container = factory.CreateBuilder(collection);

return factory.CreateServiceProvider(container);
```

MassTransit would then be able to use `IServiceProvider` with Autofac to create scopes, resolve dependencies, etc.

### Transport Changes

- [RabbitMQ batch publishing](/documentation/transports/rabbitmq#configurebatch) is now disabled by default. If you are seeing a degradation in publishing performance after upgrading, you may benefit from enabling batch publish to increase throughput. Scenarios where batching can improve throughput include high-latency broker connectivity and HA/Lazy queues.


## Version 7

As with previous major versions, MassTransit V7 includes a number of new features, but has also deprecated or changed from previous configuration syntax. For the most part, consumers, sagas, etc. should work exactly as they did with previous releases. However, some of the configuration aspects may have been updated to be more consistent.

### .NET Standard 2.0

MassTransit is now built for .NET Standard 2.0 only. The packages should be compatible with .NET Standard 2.0 (or later), as well as .NET Framework 4.6.1 (or later). Specific .NET Framework packages are no longer built or packaged.

### Riders

[Riders](/documentation/concepts/riders) are an entirely new feature which adds Kafka and Azure Event Hub support to MassTransit. A huge thanks to Denys Kozhevnikov [GitHub](https://github.com/MassTransit/MassTransit/commits?author=NooNameR) [@noonamer](https://twitter.com/noonamer) for his amazing effort!

### Configuration

Configuring MassTransit using a container has been streamlined. Refer to the [configuration](/documentation/configuration) section for details. A brief summary:

-   The `.Host` methods are now void. The _IHost_ interfaces are no longer accessible (or needed).
-   `AddBus` has been superseded by `UsingRabbitMq` (and other transport-specific extension methods)

### Sagas

The SagaRepository standardization is now completed, and all other repositories have been removed (InMemorySagaRepository is still there though).

Send topology can be configured for a message to use a _CorrelationId_, allowing saga state machine to automatically configure events that correlate on a property that isn't implemented by `CorrelatedBy<Guid>`.

### Message Scheduler

A number of new container configuration options for configuring and registering the [message scheduler](/documentation/configuration/scheduling) have been added. 

### Turnout

Turnout, which has been poorly supported since the beginning, has been rewritten from the ground up. Consumers can now use the `IJobConsumer<T>` interface to support long-running jobs managed by MassTransit. They are supported using Conductor, and a series of state machines to track job execution, retry, and concurrency. Check out the [job consumers](/documentation/patterns/job-consumers) section for details.

### Mediator

- Container configuration has changed, and now uses the `AddMediator` method (instead of `AddMassTransit`).
- Publish no longer throws if there are no consumers. To throw when publishing and no consumers are registered, set the _Mandatory_ flag on the _PublishContext_.
- Consumers can now be connected/detached after the mediator has been created.

### Testing

-   Test harnesses now use an inactivity timer to complete sooner once the bus stops processing messages.
-   Message lists, such as Consumed, Received, Sent, and Published, now have async _Any_ methods

### Transactions

The _transaction outbox_ has been renamed to _TransactionalBus_, to avoid confusion. See the [transactions section](/documentation/configuration/middleware/transactions) for details.

### Changed, Deprecated

The following packages have been deprecated and replaced with a new package:

* [MassTransit.DocumentDb](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.DocumentDb/) <br/>Use [MassTransit.Azure.Cosmos](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Azure.Cosmos/) instead.
* [MassTransit.Lamar](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Lamar/) <br/> Use [MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection/) to configure the container.
* [MassTransit.Host](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Host/) <br/>Use [MassTransit Platform](/platform) instead.

The following packages have been deprecated and are no longer supported:

* [MassTransit.Http](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Http/)
* [MassTransit.Ninject](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Ninject/)
* [MassTransit.Reactive](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Reactive/)
* [MassTransit.Unity](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Unity/)



## Version 6

### Automatonymous

In previous version, using Automatonymous required an additional package, `MassTransit.Automatonymous`. The contents of that package are now
included in the `MassTransit` assembly/package, which now depends on `Automatonymous`. This was done to reduce the number of extra packages
required for container support (along with state machine registration), as well as improve the saga repository persistence assemblies.

When upgrading to v6, any references to the old `MassTransit.Automatonymous` package should be removed.

If you are using a container with MassTransit, and were using one of the old container packages for Automatonymous, those package references
should also be removed. With version 6, only the single container integration package is required (such as `MassTransit.Autofac` or
`MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection`).

The following packages are available for the supported containers:

- MassTransit.Autofac
- MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection
- MassTransit.SimpleInjector
- MassTransit.StructureMap
- MassTransit.Windsor

### Saga Repository Update (v6.1+)

The saga repositories have been completely refactored, to eliminate duplicate logic and increase consistency across the various storage engines. All repositories also now support the container registration extensions, which provides a consistent syntax for registering and configuring saga repositories for use with dependency injection containers. When using the `.AddMassTransit()` container registration method, a repository can now be registered with the saga. For details, see the updated [documentation](/documentation/configuration/persistence).

### Azure Service Bus

The previous (now legacy) **MassTransit.AzureServiceBus** package, which was only maintained to continue support for .NET 4.5.2, has been deprecated. Going forward, the **MassTransit.Azure.ServiceBus.Core** package should be used. The package supports both .NET 4.6.1 and .NET Standard 2.0. With the new package, the .NET Messaging protocol is no longer supported. The new package includes both AMQP and WebSocket support. Certain corporate firewall configurations that previously used .NET Messaging instead of AMQP may need to specify the web socket protocol to connect to Azure Service Bus.

### Logging

The previous log abstraction used by MassTransit has been replaced with `Microsoft.Extensions.Logging.Abstractions`.

The previous log integration packages for Log4Net, NLog, and Serilog have been deprecated. An `ILoggerFactory` instance can be
configured for MassTransit by calling:

```csharp
LogContext.ConfigureCurrentLogContext(loggerFactory);
```

This should be done prior to configuring the bus. 

::alert{type="info"}
If you are using the new `.AddMassTransit()` configuration, combined with `.AddBus()`, then _ILoggerFactory_ is automatically configured for you. In this case, the statement above is not required.
::

### DiagnosticSource

As of version 6, MassTransit now uses DiagnosticSource for tracking messaging operations, such as Send, Receive, Publish, Consume, etc. An `Activity` is
created for each operation, and context-relevant tags and baggage are added.

MassTransit follows the [guidance](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/ActivityUserGuide.md) from Microsoft. To connect listeners, look at the [section](https://github.com/dotnet/runtime/blob/master/src/libraries/System.Diagnostics.DiagnosticSource/src/ActivityUserGuide.md#subscribe-to-diagnosticsource) that explains how to connect.

### Receive Endpoint Configuration

When MassTransit underwent a major overhaul, and multiple host support was added, that seemed like a great idea. A single bus talking to more than one broker, doing messaging. *Reality* &emdot; nobody used it. It added a lot of complexity, that wasn't used. 

With version 6, a single bus has a single host. That's it. Simple. And with this change, it is no longer necessary to specify the host when configuring a receive endpoint. Yes, the old methods are there, and a pseudo-host is returned from the `.Host()` call which can still be passed, but it is ignored. All the transport-specific configuration methods are still there, without the `host` parameter.

So, enjoy the simplicity. Under the covers some other things were also made simple &emdot; but I doubt you'll notice.

### Courier

To be consistent with the rest of MassTransit, many of the interfaces in Courier has been renamed. For example, `ExecuteActivity<TArguments>` is now
`IExecuteActivity<TArguments>`. The previous interfaces are still supported, but have been marked obsolete. 

