---
navigation.title: Overview
---

# Saga Overview

The ability to orchestrate a series of events is a powerful feature, and MassTransit makes this possible.

A saga is a long-lived transaction managed by a coordinator. Sagas are initiated by an event, sagas orchestrate events, and sagas maintain the state of the overall transaction. Sagas are designed to manage the complexity of a distributed transaction without locking and immediate consistency. They manage state and track any compensations required if a partial failure occurs.

We didn't create it, we learned it from the [original Princeton paper][1] and from Arnon Rotem-Gal-Oz's [description][2].

## State Machine Sagas

MassTransit includes [Automatonymous](/documentation/patterns/saga/state-machine), which provides a powerful state machine syntax to create sagas. This approach is highly recommended when using MassTransit.

## Consumer Sagas

MassTransit supports [consumer sagas](/documentation/patterns/saga/consumer-sagas), which implement one or more interfaces to consume correlated saga events. This support is included so that it is easy to move applications from other saga implementations to MassTransit. 

## Definitions

Saga definitions are used to specify the behavior of consumers so that they can be automatically configured. Definitions may be explicitly added by _AddSaga_ or discovered automatically using any of the _AddSagas_ methods.

An example saga definition is shown below. For a complete configuration reference, see the configuration section.

```csharp
public class OrderStateDefinition :
    SagaDefinition<OrderState>
{
    public OrderStateDefinition()
    {
        // specify the message limit at the endpoint level, which influences
        // the endpoint prefetch count, if supported
        Endpoint(e => e.ConcurrentMessageLimit = 16);
    }

    protected override void ConfigureSaga(IReceiveEndpointConfigurator endpointConfigurator, ISagaConfigurator<OrderState> sagaConfigurator)
    {
        var partition = endpointConfigurator.CreatePartitioner(16);

        sagaConfigurator.Message<SubmitOrder>(x => x.UsePartitioner(partition, m => m.Message.CorrelationId));
        sagaConfigurator.Message<OrderAccepted>(x => x.UsePartitioner(partition, m => m.Message.CorrelationId));
        sagaConfigurator.Message<OrderCanceled>(x => x.UsePartitioner(partition, m => m.Message.CorrelationId));
    }
}
```

## Guidance

To address some common questions related to sagas, retries, Outbox, and concurrency, this [page](/documentation/patterns/saga/guidance) has been compiled.


[1]: http://www.cs.cornell.edu/andru/cs711/2002fa/reading/sagas.pdf
[2]: https://arnon.me/wp-content/uploads/Files/SOAPatterns/Saga.pdf



