---
title: "Enter the Mediator"
date: 2020-02-23
author: "Chris"
tag: 
  - Patterns
  - Mediator
---

This post covers a new MassTransit feature, _Mediator_, and how it can be used to consume messages from any transport using MassTransit consumers and sagas.

<!-- more -->

[Mediator](/usage/mediator), a new feature added in MassTransit v6.2, is a new way to use MassTransit. Mediator is entirely in-memory, does not require a transport, and does not serialize messages. Mediator sends messages directly to the receive pipeline, which then sends them to configured consumers, handlers, and sagas.

### Why mediator?

Mediator is a behavioral design pattern that reduces coupling using an intermediate layer that encapsulates the communication between objects. A MassTransit bus is a type of mediator, it supports sending and publishing messages to consumers, sagas, activities, and handlers that are decoupled from the message producer. _Mediator_ is another form, one that can be used in many of the same situations but without the overhead of message serialization and the distributed system complexity. By using _mediator_, the power of MassTransit is now available for a broader set of use cases with the same flexibility and programming model.


#### Kafka

Kafka support is a fairly common request. MassTransit is a bus, and it was designed to work with message brokers. A lot of people think Kafka is a message broker, but it isn't the type of broker that MassTransit expects. For instance, Kafka should not be used for RPC or a request-response conversation pattern such as a query. Kafka is designed as a streaming log writer, with topics that can have messages (each of which is a key-value pair of byte arrays). Messages are not delivered to consumers, they are read by consumers – similar to how records are read from a file.

So while Kafka has atoms like _topics_ and _messages_, those atoms are semantically different than those used by a typical message broker used with MassTransit.

However, it _would_ be pretty awesome to process messages read from a Kafka topic using MassTransit. And that's how _mediator_ started – a way to send any type (call it `T`) to the [receive pipeline](/advanced/middleware/receive) so that it can be consumed. And like any endeavor to add functionality, the same question, "_how hard can it be?_" Using _mediator_ to consume Kafka messages is now possible by sending the deserialized type using `await mediator.Send<T>(T message)`. 

#### Speed

Mediator is fast. Even using the in-memory transport, MassTransit will serialize and deserialize messages, which adds considerable overhead. Mediator doesn't serialize, which means it isn't slow. Using the [MassTransit-Benchmark](https://github.com/MassTransit/MassTransit-Benchmark) with the `--mediator` option, send/consume is blazingly fast (over 650,000 messages/second on my 8-core Windows desktop), and request/response is pretty fast as well. Of course, these are fairly synthetic numbers – consumers will typically do more than just add a counter to a bucket.

## Using Mediator

To configure mediator in an ASP.NET Core project, add the following to the _ConfigureServices_ method.

> Packages used: [MassTransit](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit/), [MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection](https://nuget.org/packages/MassTransit.Extensions.DependencyInjection/)

```cs
public void ConfigureServices(IServiceCollection services)
{
    services.AddControllers();

    services.AddMassTransit(x =>
    {
        x.AddConsumersFromNamespaceContaining<OrderConsumer>();

        x.AddMediator((provider, cfg) =>
        {
            cfg.ConfigureConsumers(provider);
        });

        x.AddRequestClient<SubmitOrder>();
    });
}
```

Any consumers in the same namespace as the `OrderConsumer` will be added, along with any consumer definition classes found. The `AddMediator` configuration method is a `IReceiverEndpointConfigurator`, on which all of the consumers are configured. 

> The configuration can include all kinds of middleware, including popular favorites such as `UseMessageRetry` and `UseConcurrencyLimit`.

A request client is added for use by a controller where a response is expected. If no response is needed, call the `Send` method on the `IMediator` interface.

::: warning
Only a mediator, or a bus, can currently be configured. If you try to call both `.AddBus()` and `.AddMediator()` it's hard to know for sure what will happen.
:::

The consumer is a standard MassTransit consumer:

```cs
public class OrderConsumer :
    IConsumer<SubmitOrder>
{
    public Task Consume(ConsumeContext<SubmitOrder> context)
    {
        return context.RespondAsync(new OrderAccepted
        {
            Text = $"Received: {context.Message.OrderNumber} {DateTime.UtcNow}"
        });
    }
}
```

And the message contracts are simple classes (yes, interfaces can be used as well – and are still recommended).

```cs
public class SubmitOrder
{
    public int OrderNumber { get; set; }
}

public class OrderAccepted
{
    public string Text { get; set; }
}
```

The controller method uses the request client to communicate (indirectly, via the mediator) with the `OrderConsumer`.

```cs
[Route("/orders")]
public class OrderController : 
    Controller
{
    readonly IRequestClient<SubmitOrder> _requestClient;

    public OrderController(IRequestClient<SubmitOrder> requestClient)
    {
        _requestClient = requestClient;
    }

    [HttpPost]
    public async Task<IActionResult> Submit([FromBody] OrderDto order, CancellationToken cancellationToken)
    {
        try
        {
            var response = await _requestClient.GetResponse<OrderAccepted>(new { OrderNumber = order.ON }, cancellationToken);

            return Content($"Order Accepted 123: {response.Message.Text}");
        }
        catch (RequestTimeoutException)
        {
            return StatusCode((int)HttpStatusCode.RequestTimeout);
        }
        catch (Exception)
        {
            return StatusCode((int)HttpStatusCode.RequestTimeout);
        }
    }
}
```

### What about Kafka?

Using the Confluent Kafka client, AVRO, and the schema registry – it is possible to send messages to _mediator_.

```cs
CancellationTokenSource cts = new CancellationTokenSource();
var consumeTask = Task.Run(() =>
{
    using var schemaRegistry = new CachedSchemaRegistryClient(schemaRegistryConfig);
    using var consumer = new ConsumerBuilder<string, OrderUpdate>(consumerConfig)
            .SetKeyDeserializer(new AvroDeserializer<string>(schemaRegistry).AsSyncOverAsync())
            .SetValueDeserializer(new AvroDeserializer<OrderUpdate>(schemaRegistry).AsSyncOverAsync())
            .SetErrorHandler((_, e) => Console.WriteLine($"Error: {e.Reason}"))
            .Build());

    consumer.Subscribe("order-updates");

    try
    {
        while (true)
        {
            try
            {
                var consumeResult = consumer.Consume(cts.Token);

                await mediator.Send(consumeResult.Message, cts.Token);
            }
            catch (ConsumeException e)
            {
                Console.WriteLine($"Consume error: {e.Error.Reason}");
            }
        }
    }
    catch (OperationCanceledException)
    {
        consumer.Close();
    }
});
```

This is just an example, based off a sample from the Confluent site.

::: tip Be Kind
This is a first pass attempt at getting Kafka and Avro into MassTransit. And really, it isn't _into_ MassTransit – it's just possible to use it with MassTransit consumers (and sagas, yes, they work in mediator). As people start to use it, there will likely be updates that add the ability to map headers into the `ConsumeContext`.
:::




